Welcome back.
Let's code our own bubble sort algorithm.
I'm going to create a function called bubble sort.
That's going to take in an array.
And I have an array up here for us of these numbers.
And ideally, when we enter this array into this function, it spits out a sorted array.
And based on the animation that we saw, we ideally start from the beginning, compare first and second
item, swap out the items.
If the left one is larger than the right and keep going, keep going, keep going until the largest
item ends up in the last index and then we loop over things again.
The first thing I want to do is say that I'll just create a variable so I don't have to keep repeating
myself.
I'll get array dot length here, which will be the length of this item, which should be ten I believe.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, 11.
Never mind, it's 11.
And in here, we'll do a four loop.
And we'll say Let I equals to zero, which will be the first index of the array.
I is less than length.
I.
Plus.
And within here we grab the first item.
We now want to compare it to 44 and so on and so forth.
We should know this by now.
We want to add another for loop.
J is going to equal zero.
Jay is going to be less than a month.
And we'll say J plus.
Plus.
Now in here.
We'll say that if Ray.
J at index of zero.
So that is 99 is greater than array.
J plus one that is 44.
So if 99 is greater than 44 and the first loop.
We'll say.
Let's.
Soft numbers.
So we can simply do that by saying creating a temporary variable that holds array a j which the first
pass will be 99.
And give the first index of zero to array.
J plus 44 or plus one, which is 44.
And 99 now goes into the second index.
So that means a ray j plus one is going to equal a ray J.
You might need to pause the video to really understand this, but all we're doing is just swapping numbers.
If the left hand side is bigger than the right hand side.
And once that is done.
We increment J to one so that we compare index of one and two, and then we compare index of two and
three.
Three and four, four and five until we bubble things up.
And then we go to the top.
And compared the items again in the outer for loop.
Let's see if this works.
Oh, and I just realized.
This a ray J.
Should be temp here.
So remember 99, we placed it into a temporary variable.
And assigning it to the index to the right.
So if we run bubble sort now we'll say numbers and we'll console.log numbers to see if it's sorted.
If I had run.
Oh console.log numbers make sure I can spell.
Let's hit.
Run.
And look at that.
Our list is now sorted.
That was bubble sort.
And as you can hear, we have two nested four loops.
Giving us all of WN squared, but we're not really holding variables to another data structure or holding
the numbers into other data structures.
So the space complexity is all of one.
As we can see in our big cheat sheet, bubble sort is probably not the best algorithm, although it
has good space complexity.
You can use the code that I'll leave for you in this lesson to play around with.
But for now, let's go on to our next sorting algorithm.
Congratulations.
You've just completed your first sorting algorithm, but we have more to go.
So let's go to the next one.